# SPROUT
SPROUT is a gradient boosting algorithm to predict the repair outcome of a CRISPR-CAS9 knockout experiment. SPROUT accepts the DNA sequence of the guide as input as well as other genomic factors and predicts the various statistics of the repair outcome, including, the fraction of mutant reads with an insertion/deletion, fraction of total reads with insertion/deletion, average insertion length give an insertion, average deletion length given a deletion, diversity, most likely inserted base pair and finally the edit (mutation) efficiency of the CRISPR outcome. The accuracy of SPROUT in all these prediction tasks are detailed in the manuscript.

Here we include the SPROUT full package along with the preprocessed Tcell files. The SPROUT pipeline has three main parts: 1) Preprocessing 2) Training, and 3) Testing. The preprocessing pipeline parses the output of the CrisprRVariant package and creates summary pickle (.p) files that are easily accessible and loadable for downstream analysis. SPROUT_preprocess code converts the raw CrisprRVariant data files to loadbale files. The next part is the training code which loads in the proprocessed files, creates the output labels included in the paper and finally trains various models used in the paper. The trained models are stored in the model/ folder. The last part of the SPROUT pipeline is a lightweight and self-containing code called SPROUT_predict which has a user-friendly platform. The code enable users with minimal coding knowledge to feed in a desired guide or a coordinate on the genome and get various repair outcomes as output.

